TODO.md, before:

# V1 release

- [ ] populate [quick_links.md](./quick_links.md) with proper links to files  
- [ ] rename `primary house` to `main house`, and `secondary house` to `find-term-for-here house`
- [ ] think about when spells can be used
- [ ] balance out OP cantrips (maybe even add cantrips, and leave util spells like they are)
- [ ] reorganize races so each bracket has more diverse options
- [ ] organize character creation to output like so:
```
strong lightning warforged mentalist

ARC     main house, 1d12, +4 max level, +2 PP
STR     secondary, +2 max level, +1 PP

RAN +0 /10  1d10
ARC +2 /14  1d12 // 1
STL +0 /10  1d10
STR +1 /9   1d10 // 2
CHR +0 /7   1d8
```

- [x] world tile gen: tile content should not be mutually exclusive. modify brackets to include other options
- [x] propagate folders with proper files. see readme.md
- [x] go through index entries, and check all content from ./old/ is included

---

# The Monsterful Update

---

# Gerrimand's Lootbox of Shiny Things

---

# Mr. Smiley's Mercurial Moods

Commit message:

changes to todo, landmarks, styleguide, testing

TODO.md, after:

# V1 release

- [ ] Create optional lore and NPCs for landmarks, shops, etc (Gym's Jim)
- [ ] populate [quick_links.md](./quick_links.md) with proper links to files  
- [ ] rename `primary house` to `main house`, and `secondary house` to `find-term-for-here house`
- [ ] think about when spells can be used
- [ ] balance out OP cantrips (maybe even add cantrips, and leave util spells like they are)
- [ ] reorganize races so each bracket has more diverse options
- [ ] organize character creation to output like so:
```
strong lightning warforged mentalist

ARC     main house, 1d12, +4 max level, +2 PP
STR     secondary, +2 max level, +1 PP

RAN +0 /10  1d10
ARC +2 /14  1d12 // 1
STL +0 /10  1d10
STR +1 /9   1d10 // 2
CHR +0 /7   1d8
```

- [x] world tile gen: tile content should not be mutually exclusive. modify brackets to include other options
- [x] propagate folders with proper files. see readme.md
- [x] go through index entries, and check all content from ./old/ is included

---

# The Monsterful Update

---

# Gerrimand's Lootbox of Shiny Things

---

# Mr. Smiley's Mercurial Moods
