generators/player/readme.md, before:

<!-- @todo add bracketed list of races to here  -->
Unlike most roleplaying games, in The Forge you don't have to make many choices to get a character up and running. All it takes is two dice rolls and four choices and your whole character is created!

There are Races, Race Modifiers, Houses, and Classes. 
Race is the kind of creature you are: Human, Goblin, Centaur. 
Race Modifiers help create backstory to the character, as well as add some helpful modifiers.
House is the style of knowledge your Class falls under. You will have a main House and a secondary House. The secondary House is for character background and a few perks. 
Class you choose will dictate what kind of fighting you're good at (or not!).

# Player Generation
_Generating a character before campaign. You can follow instructions below or manually create a character that matches the template_

**requires:**
* 2 d6
* 1d100
  * or 1d10 + 1 percentile die
  * or 2d10



### instructions
0. roll 1d100
0. choose race from section
    * if race has 1d4 tweak, roll now
0. choose one race modifier
0. roll 2d6
0. choose main house
0. choose class from house
0. use second d6 house as secondary house
---

## Race
Races are divided into groupings of 4, within a 10 digit bracket. 
Roll a 1d100, and then check what bracket contains the number you rolled.

* 27: 23 - 33
* 84: 78 - 88
* 55: 45 - 55

Choose one of the four races in your bracket. You can check out the races document for extra information about your options to make a more informed decision, or just pick the top one if you're looking to generate a quick character.

1. roll 1d100
2. check races table within lookup info tables
3. choose one race from bracket that contains roll
    * check races table (long) for extra race info

each race has pros and cons. check races information

# houses & class
There are five Houses:
  * STR - Strength
  * STL - Stealth
  * ARC - Arcana
  * RAN - Range
  * CHR - Charm
  
Each House contains three Classes that showcase the House's skills.
Roll 2d6. If you got a 6, either roll again or choose one of the Houses manually.

1. Strength
2. Stealth
3. Arcana
4. Range
5. Charm
6. player's choice, or roll again

From the two rolls, choose which will be your Primary House and Secondary House. 
Now, choose a Class from your Primary House

2 x 1d6 gives you a choice for a primary house from two. \
rolling a 6 means you roll again, or pick a house manually. \
each house has 3 classes within. \
from the two choices, pick which wil be your primary and secondary house \
pick a class from your primary house \
your secondary house gives you things you're good at (pros) \
your class gives you things you're bad at (cons)


the class you choose will add limits to the max level you can get certain houses to. \
If the class has one house listed, that mentioned house is capped at level 5.
If it has 2 houses, they're both capped at level 7.

1. roll 2 x 1d6
    1. RAN
    2. ARC
    3. STL
    4. STR
    5. CHR
    6. choose manually
2. decide which house is primary, other roll defaults to secondary
3. primary house gets +4 extra levels to work towards and +2 pp
4. secondary house gets +3 extra levels to work towards, and +1 PP
5. look up classes that are within primary house, choose one

### House Proficiency Points

Whenever you level up, you can exchange 3XP for a House Proficiency Point. These points are permanently added to your rolls whenever you do a skill check within that house.


# size and health

each character starts with 3 levels.
each character level is equal to 4,5,6 HP dependent on size 


size    HP      min - max

small   4HP     12 - 180
medium  5HP     15 - 225
large   6HP     18 - 270


# personality and background

Forge doesn't have built-in alignment charts, however now that you have your character built you can pick one if you'd like. 

# inventory & equipment

All players start with: 
* 1 Spirit Orb
* 2 Silver Pieces

Inventory is simple: You have unlimited inventory slots, and can carry unlimited items or weight, _to a reasonable limit_. Your pack can't carry a whole dragon's gold stash, but you could feasibly use it to sneak a couple dragon eggs away from their clutch.

Equipment is much the same way as inventory. Sensible real-world logic and physics apply, unless there is a magical explanation. 

---

## Final character

Put together everything you just did in this order: `{racemod} {secondary house} {race} {class}`


---


## Race table

00 - 11
  * Triton
  * Orog
  * Tiefling
  * Dwarf
  * Elf

12 - 22
  * Argonian
  * Imp
  * Gnome
  * Goblin
  * Genasi - 1d4 earth, water, fire, air

23 - 33
  * Piglin
  * Unknown
  * `Spellforged` - 1d4 acid, water, fire, lightning
  * Titanborne
  * Duarling
    
34 - 44
  * Human
  * Centaur
  * Hobbit
  * Treant/Ent
  * Troll
    
45 - 55
  * Dragonkin
  * Lizardfolk
  * Kobold
  * Fae
  * Satyr
    
56 - 66    
  * Khajit
  * `Pump-kin`
  * Roo
  * Etterkin
  * Kerbal
  
67 - 77
  * Dryad
  * Naga
  * Yeti
  * Amazonian
  * Golem - 1d4 earth, water, fire, air
    
78 - 88
  * Lynel
  * `Sentient Automaton`
  * Qualf
  * Tortle
  * Moonfolk
    
 89- 99  
  * Aligotarian
  * Animated Armor
  * Halfling
  * Valkrye
  * Aarakocra/Rito

Commit message:

finishes primary/secondary as House/Guild

generators/player/readme.md, after:

<!-- @todo add bracketed list of races to here  -->
Unlike most roleplaying games, in The Forge you don't have to make many choices to get a character up and running. All it takes is two dice rolls and four choices and your whole character is created!

There are Races, Race Modifiers, House, Guild, and Classes. 
Race is the kind of creature you are: Human, Goblin, Centaur. 
House is the style of knowledge your Class falls under.
Guild is for a few perks, and character background. 
Class you choose will dictate what kind of fighting you're good at (or not!).

# Player Generation
_Generating a character before campaign. You can follow instructions below or manually create a character that matches the template_

**requires:**
* 2 d6
* 1d100
  * or 1d10 + 1 percentile die
  * or 2d10



### instructions
0. roll 1d100
0. choose race from section
    * if race has 1d4 tweak, roll now
0. choose one race modifier
0. roll 2d6
0. choose main house
0. choose class from house
0. use second d6 house as guild
---

## Race
Races are divided into groupings of 4, within a 10 digit bracket. 
Roll a 1d100, and then check what bracket contains the number you rolled.

* 27: 23 - 33
* 84: 78 - 88
* 55: 45 - 55

Choose one of the four races in your bracket. You can check out the races document for extra information about your options to make a more informed decision, or just pick the top one if you're looking to generate a quick character.

1. roll 1d100
2. check races table within lookup info tables
3. choose one race from bracket that contains roll
    * check races table (long) for extra race info

each race has pros and cons. check races information

# houses & class
There are five Houses:
  * STR - Strength
  * STL - Stealth
  * ARC - Arcana
  * RAN - Range
  * CHR - Charm
  
Each House contains three Classes that showcase the House's skills.
Roll 2d6. If you got a 6, either roll again or choose one of the Houses manually.

1. Strength
2. Stealth
3. Arcana
4. Range
5. Charm
6. player's choice, or roll again

From the two rolls, choose which will be your House and guild. 
Now, choose a Class from your House

2 x 1d6 gives you a choice for a House from two.
rolling a 6 means you roll again, or pick a house manually.
each house has 3 classes within.
from the two choices, pick which wil be your house and guild
pick a class from your house
<!-- @todo check if this is accurate below -->
your guild gives you things you're good at (pros)
your class gives you things you're bad at (cons)


the class you choose will add limits to the max level you can get certain houses to.
If the class has one house listed, that mentioned house is capped at level 5.
If it has 2 houses, they're both capped at level 7.

1. roll 2 x 1d6
    1. RAN
    2. ARC
    3. STL
    4. STR
    5. CHR
    6. choose manually
2. decide which roll will be your House, other roll defaults to Guild
<!-- @todo these numbers below are wrong -->
3. House gets +4 extra levels to work towards and +2 pp
4. Guild gets +3 extra levels to work towards, and +1 PP
5. look up classes that are within your House, choose one

### House Proficiency Points

Whenever you level up, you can exchange 3XP for a House Proficiency Point. These points are permanently added to your rolls whenever you do a skill check within that house.


# size and health

each character starts with 3 levels.
each character level is equal to 4,5,6 HP dependent on size 


size    HP      min - max

small   4HP     12 - 180
medium  5HP     15 - 225
large   6HP     18 - 270


# personality and background

Forge doesn't have built-in alignment charts, however now that you have your character built you can pick one if you'd like. 

# inventory & equipment

All players start with: 
* 1 Spirit Orb
* 2 Silver Pieces

Inventory is simple: You have unlimited inventory slots, and can carry unlimited items or weight, _to a reasonable limit_. Your pack can't carry a whole dragon's gold stash, but you could feasibly use it to sneak a couple dragon eggs away from their clutch.

Equipment is much the same way as inventory. Sensible real-world logic and physics apply, unless there is a magical explanation. 

---

## Final character

Put together everything you just did in this order: `{guild} {race} {class} of {House} house`


---


## Race table

00 - 11
  * Triton
  * Orog
  * Tiefling
  * Dwarf
  * Elf

12 - 22
  * Argonian
  * Imp
  * Gnome
  * Goblin
  * Genasi - 1d4 earth, water, fire, air

23 - 33
  * Piglin
  * Unknown
  * `Spellforged` - 1d4 acid, water, fire, lightning
  * Titanborne
  * Duarling
    
34 - 44
  * Human
  * Centaur
  * Hobbit
  * Treant/Ent
  * Troll
    
45 - 55
  * Dragonkin
  * Lizardfolk
  * Kobold
  * Fae
  * Satyr
    
56 - 66    
  * Khajit
  * `Pump-kin`
  * Roo
  * Etterkin
  * Kerbal
  
67 - 77
  * Dryad
  * Naga
  * Yeti
  * Amazonian
  * Golem - 1d4 earth, water, fire, air
    
78 - 88
  * Lynel
  * `Sentient Automaton`
  * Qualf
  * Tortle
  * Moonfolk
    
 89- 99  
  * Aligotarian
  * Animated Armor
  * Halfling
  * Valkrye
  * Aarakocra/Rito
